HDDS-11584. Document ozone debug ldb command (#7313)
apache/ozone: hadoop-hdds/docs/content/tools/Debug.md

---
title: "Ozone Debug"
date: 2024-10-14
summary: Ozone Debug command can be used for all the debugging related tasks.
---
<!---
  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
  contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
  this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
  The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
  (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
  the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->

> Ozone Debug command (`ozone debug`) is a collection of tools intended to help in debugging and get more information of various components of ozone.

Reviewer: lets say "developer tools"

> Ozone Debug command (`ozone debug`) is a collection of tools intended to help in debugging and get more information of various components of ozone.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ozone Debug command (`ozone debug`) is a collection of developer tools intended to help in debugging and get more information of various components of ozone.
```
lets say "developer tools"

Commands:
  chunkinfo                  returns chunk location information about an
                               existing key
  print-log-dag, pld         Create an image of the current compaction log DAG
                               in OM.
  find-missing-padding, fmp  List all keys with any missing padding, optionally
                               limited to a volume/bucket/key URI.
  recover                    recover the lease of a specified file. Make sure
                               to specify file system scheme if ofs:// is not
                               the default.
  prefix                     Parse prefix contents
  ldb                        Parse rocksdb file content
  read-replicas              Reads every replica for all the blocks associated
                               with a given key.
  container                  Container replica specific operations to be
                               executed on datanodes only
  ratislogparser             Shell of printing Ratis Log in understandable text
```
For more detailed usage see the output of `--help` for each of the subcommands.

## ozone debug ldb

> This debug command helps to parse any db given to the command. Below is the usage:

Reviewer: Let's add some context: 

```suggestion
Ozone heavily uses RocksDB for storing metadata. This tool helps parse the contents of RocksDB belonging to Ozone Roles.
Supported DB's : Ozone Manager (om.db) , StorageContainerManager (scm.db),  Datanode/Container (container.db)
Below is the usage:
```

---
<!---
  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
  contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
  this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
  The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
  (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
  the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->

Ozone Debug command (`ozone debug`) is a collection of developer tools intended to help in debugging and get more information of various components of ozone.

```bash
$ ozone debug --help 
Usage: ozone debug [-hV] [--verbose] [-conf=<configurationPath>]
                   [-D=<String=String>]... [COMMAND]
Developer tools for Ozone Debug operations

>       -conf=<configurationPath>

Reviewer 2: Indent of --conf is different than others.

Author: It is aligned with the beginning of `--set` in the below line, as there is no one-letter short-form for it.

  -D, --set=<String=String>

> 

Reviewer 3: Can we briefly describe -D and -conf?

Author: Thanks for the review, I have added a description. Could you please review it?

  find-missing-padding, fmp  List all keys with any missing padding, optionally
                               limited to a volume/bucket/key URI.
  recover                    recover the lease of a specified file. Make sure
                               to specify file system scheme if ofs:// is not
                               the default.
  prefix                     Parse prefix contents
  ldb                        Parse rocksdb file content
  read-replicas              Reads every replica for all the blocks associated
                               with a given key.
  container                  Container replica specific operations to be
                               executed on datanodes only
  ratislogparser             Shell of printing Ratis Log in understandable text
```
For more detailed usage see the output of `--help` for each of the subcommands.

## ozone debug ldb

Ozone heavily uses RocksDB for storing metadata. This tool helps parse the contents of RocksDB belonging to Ozone Roles.
Supported DB's : Ozone Manager (om.db) , StorageContainerManager (scm.db),  Datanode/Container (container.db)
Below is the usage:

```bash
$ ozone debug ldb --help

> Missing required option: '--db=<dbPath>'

Reviewer 2: We shall remove these two lines before the "Usage:".

Usage: ozone debug ldb --db=<dbPath> [COMMAND]
Parse rocksdb file content
      --db=<dbPath>   Database File Path
Commands:
  scan                      Parse specified metadataTable
  list_column_families, ls  list all column families in db.
  value-schema              Schema of value in metadataTable
```

### list_column_families command

`list_column_families` command lists all the column families in the db provided.

```bash
$ ozone debug ldb --db=/path/to/scm.db ls
default
sequenceId
revokedCertsV2
pipelines
crls
crlSequenceId
meta
containers
validCerts
validSCMCerts
scmTransactionInfos
deletedBlocks
statefulServiceConfig
revokedCerts
move
```

### scan command

`scan` command parses a particular column family of a rocksdb provided and prints the records.

```bash

> $ ozone debug ldb --db=/path/to/any/db/scm.db scan --help

Reviewer 2: Please remove these two lines too.
